[narrator]  16 of the
best tattoo artists
from all over the country
are battling it out
to determine who's number one.
[shrieks]
On the last
episode of Ink Master,
eight artists were left
in the competition.
You all complete
your design together.
Do it.
In the Flash Challenge,
the artists had to prove
their gradation skills.
And teamwork was the name
of the game.
-Whoa.
-Yeah.
Ooh, yeah.
[gunshot]
-In the elimination tattoo--
-[grunts]
Looks like some
sort of torture device.
[groans]
Shared canvasses brought
a whole new set of obstacles.
[groans]
-Your Mohawk's in the way.
-It's not gonna work.
I am hauling ass.
Holy [bleep].
We had a tattoo
at the same time.
And we got beaten like
[bleep] stepchildren.
[bleep]! [bleep]!
At the elimination,
Clint, Sarah and Mark
were the bottom three.
Mark.
The gradation inside the armor
is really weak.
I hate to see you down here
in the bottom again.
How many passes do you get?
Sarah and Clint.
You guys didn't
work well together at all.
Your anatomy is off.
Your designs are just flawed.
I have passion
and I'll continue to fight.
I'm not done.
Don't count me out.
Mark, you do not have
what it takes to be Ink Master.
Seven artists remain,
but only one will
earn a $100,000 prize.
And the title of Ink Master.
[rock music]
If you give me
honest, solid critique,
I appreciate that critique.
And I will take that
and I will learn from that.
I am a really good artist
and I have passion.
I love what I do.
And I'll continue
to push myself.
You'll see it from me
maybe tomorrow, maybe a month,
or maybe a year from now,
but you'll see it.
But there's a lot
of design flaws.
-It came out lacking.
-I'm not done.
How you take critiques
and your emotions--
but I've proven
this entire competition
that I take what they say
and I do better work.
That's not what I'm saying.
Sarah is a very big know-it-all.
She comes on very strong
with her emotions.
It's kind of annoying.
Ripped me a new [bleep]-hole
and, like, I'd be, like,
"Thank you, sirs."
You know you
put 110% into everything.
-Yes.
-So who cares?
Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
I live tattoos.
I love tattooing.
Sarah handles pressure horribly.
Oh, she is crazy.
Her inexperience
in this competition
is definitely
working against her.
When it comes to critique,
you better put some skin on,
'cause this [bleep]
is gonna [bleep] hurt.
I had a little bit
of a breakdown.
But that's just gonna
make me work harder.
Now they're gonna
see what I'm capable of.
I'm gonna bring it.
[rock music]
Thanks, homie.
-Crank that [bleep] up, dude!
-Whoo!
-Yes!
-[cheers and applause]
All right!
This is what I'm talking about.
What the [bleep] is going on?
Ride that cow!
Riding is an understatement
of what she's
doing to this bull.
Seven artists remain,
but only one will walk away
with $100,000,
a feature article
in  Inked magazine,
and most importantly,
the title of Ink Master.
As always, we begin
with the Flash Challenge.
The skills test that will
give the winner the power
to assign all
the human canvasses
for the elimination tattoo.
This week, we're
testing balance.
Everything from incorporating
multiple elements
into one design,
the arrangement
of those elements,
and the placement
of the elements on the body.
Balance is really important
because it means you have
a good fluidity.
It helps move your eye around
and it doesn't
get hung up on one place.
For today's Flash Challenge,
you've each been
randomly assigned a cowgirl.
Instead of tattooing skin,
you'll be burning chaps.
[laughing]
What are chaps?
I don't know who invented
chaps,
but man, I gotta
shake his [bleep] hand.
Remember, you're
being judged on balance.
If the elements
don't work together
and aren't well-placed
on the chaps,
you're headed for a fall.
You have two hours to
customize and design
and burn it into their chaps.
And your time begins now.
[music]
In testing balance,
we want to see them
incorporate multiple
elements of the design together.
It just needs
to fit the body shape.
If it looks unbalanced,
it's just gonna look unnatural
and overall unpleasing.
I've never seen
one of these before.
What do we have in mind?
I was thinking maybe something
aquatic, tropical. Sharks.
You got any ideas?
-How about mythical dragons.
-Dragon, huh?
You want to keep
the Texas theme, like,
why don't we do,
like, bull skulls?
Cool.
I was on the bottom
for the first time.
I don't like the way that felt.
I have to kick my ass in gear
and just push myself,
just to get over this roadblock.
I definitely feel that
I've been very underestimated.
I don't feel like anybody
saw me as a threat.
And I think that
that changed now
with how I've been climbing up.
[rock music]
Let's see how well
you can burn some [bleep].
Oh, yeah, this is hot.
It burns pretty easy.
All right, guys,
it's one hour down.
You got one hour to go.
[music]
It's really hard for me
to bounce back from last week,
just 'cause of the fact
that I felt like
I didn't deserve
to go in the bottom.
Would you say
that you did gradation
as nice as the rest
of the field?
I have to stand
by the fact that I--
You can't. 'Cause you didn't.
I got exactly the opposite
of what I felt I deserved.
How you doing?
I really can't say that
Clint's piece shows balance.
Pretty ballsy move
trying to do a three-headed
Japanese-style dragon
in front of Nunez.
He specializes
in traditional Japanese.
45 left.
[music]
The balance of love and hate.
He could have
little flames in his eyes.
We all know Jessie
is the biggest threat
in this competition.
Let's put little
nostrils in there.
But he has to show
that he can do other styles.
I'm a one-trick pony.
The judges don't think
his little googly eyes
are cute anymore.
[bleep] Jesse
and your googly eyes.
I'm not doing googly eyes.
-Those are googly eyes.
-[bleep] Off.
Look at you, learning
to deal with the scratches.
I really don't want to see any
of those smug little looks
that I know she's
been sending my way.
Baby is definitely more
of a threat to me right now.
Oh, you frickin'
really drew in there.
Look at you drawing skulls
from the top of your head.
-Don't even talk to me.
-Oh, that is [bleep] up.
Sarah feels like she
is really competing with me.
But I don't feel like Sarah
is better than me.
We did just agree.
I can't let Tatu Baby
win this Flash Challenge.
There's no room for error.
You really want to give
yourself that mental anguish
of making these things match?
Jamie takes on doing
two different chaps.
You're out of your [bleep] mind.
It is a balance challenge,
so for me, I'm really trying
to show off where I think
that symmetrical sugar skulls
would look good on a body.
I would love to win
a [bleep] Flash Challenge.
At least one. God.
It's definitely game-on.
Five more minutes, everybody.
It's looking pretty good, huh?
I am definitely feeling
a little bit more pressure.
I didn't come here to lose.
It's first place and then
all the rest are losers.
And ten, nine, eight,
seven, six, five, four,
three, two, one.
Time's up. No more burning.
You look pretty cool.
Tatu Baby,
tell us about this design.
I knew that I wanted
to go with one side.
And I wanted to show balance
through the music stuff,
a microphone and some roses.
I like the balance
of the design.
It really rides the chap nicely.
The writing at
the bottom narrows down.
The design, it puts a nice flow.
It's something that typically
you'd see on a nice layout
of a tattoo.
Thank you.
Sarah, tell us
about this design.
I wanted to utilize
both pant legs to show balance.
I like the detail in the skull,
but on the cactus leg
it looks unfinished.
The balance of it,
it's a little bit right-heavy.
'Cause that side just looks
a little bit
too sketchy everywhere.
Jesse.
I like that you
utilized both legs.
We came up with creatures
with teeth and big eyes.
And then the love-hate concept,
so you have some balance there.
You never sway.
.You just keep doing what
you know you're gonna do,
but I definitely
like the drawings.
It does have a nice balance.
It's precise and it's solid.
Jesse's not making
any mistakes going new-school.
That's what Jesse does
and if you give him the chance,
he's gonna do it right through
this [bleep] competition
and take that money.
Steve.
Going with just one leg
is really good.
The way this fits the chap
from top to bottom,
all the elements really
fit together nicely.
I like the shark.
I wish there was
more water in there
to make the water stand out,
but technically
you did a really good job.
Thank you.
Sebastian.
The balance is a little bit off
because it doesn't
have a clean outline.
It just looks like
a pencil drawing in a notebook.
It's just like doing
an outline in a tattoo.
If the outline's clean,
the design looks clean.
Jamie.
I decided to try to do
just opposing sugar skulls
that are similar, but with
different design elements,
so they weren't just mirrored.
I love the way
they fit on the hip,
the balance between
each leg is right on.
Your craftsmanship in this
shows in your tattooing.
You lay it down in clean,
solid, bold outlines.
You show it off.
Clint.
She said she wanted a dragon.
Right out of the gate,
that's a backwards design.
The head will be more
powerful-looking up and in.
Dragons are supposed
to flow with the body.
We talked about that too,
but I mean, the balance of it.
The curves.
The shape of the dragon
is very unbalanced.
With one big claw.
It's just hideous.
Let's start with Clint.
You guys seemed
pretty rough on him.
It didn't do anything
good to that chap.
It didn't fit good on the leg.
What about Sarah's Texas theme?
Overall, weak.
There were still pencil
sketching on the one side.
We're catching a tailspin
out of some of our people now.
If there was
a top in the field, Steve.
Had a lot
of really solid, clean lines.
With fine little details
on the flowers.
It really made the design pop.
Jesse did Jesse
on both legs of the chaps.
If his execution would
have been as nice as Steve's,
it would have been
a lot more bold.
And it would have added
to his style of design.
It was a cool concept
and it had a nice balance.
He had a nice shape
that went along with that.
-Yeah.
-Jamie did the two sugar skulls.
I thought that was really tight.
Two perfect sketches.
Clean, solid work.
Fits the balance challenge.
Fits the chaps.
-Think we have a decision?
-I think we agree.
All right, man,
let's go tell them.
For this Flash Challenge,
we tested you on balance.
The judges have
come to a decision,
and the winner
of this Flash Challenge is...
[dramatic music]
Jamie.
[applause]
I don't [bleep] believe it.
Yours stood out the most.
Very solid balance.
Laid it down really clean.
You did nice, solid lines.
You did a great job.
You now have all the power
to assign the human canvasses
for the elimination tattoo.
I'm definitely motivated
to very strategically
[bleep] Everyone.
So head on back to the shop
and get ready
to meet your canvasses
for the next elimination tattoo.
Knock these [bleep] off
one by one.
I refuse to be railroaded
by a canvas.
I don't want to [bleep] go home.
If I don't like it,
I'm walking out.
This guy could very well
send me the [bleep] home.
Start praying to Jesus.
[music]
It's a game, and I want
everyone to go home
so we can finish
the [bleep] game.
I just think
there are several people
that aren't going to [bleep] up
no matter what they're given.
Hand me what
you're gonna hand me
and if I either sink or swim,
I sink or swim.
Throwing something at Jesse or
Steve is almost a wasted shot.
I'm within striking distance
of those guys anyway.
Based off of the judges
and how many times
people have been down there
and got reprimanded--
-I'd rather put Clint--
-Clint.
You know, Clint's
gotten a warning
that he's right on the cusp.
I think taking a swing
would be a smart thing to do.
Somebody's gonna drop the ball,
but I'm not gonna [bleep] up.
We don't know what
the challenges are,
we don't know
what kind of [bleep] curves
-they're gonna throw at us.
-And, you know,
one bad day, one bad client.
Knock these [bleep] off
one by one.
[music]
[needle buzzing]
Welcome to another
elimination tattoo.
This week,
we're testing balance.
Impress us, and you'll have
another week to show us
why you deserve
to be named Ink Master.
Fail, and you'll be packing up
and heading home.
Don't forget, you'll
be judged by all of America.
Each week, viewers at home
will vote for the tattoo
that they think is best,
using the same criteria
that the judges use.
But today, we also have
a very special guest judge.
Oh, [bleep]. Here we go.
He owns two of the most
well-known tattoo shops
in the world.
He's won hundreds of awards
for tattooing and art
and is one of the leading
Japanese tattooers
in the industry.
Mike Rubendall.
-Oh, [bleep].
-[applause]
I'm known for
my contemporary approach
on traditional
Japanese tattoo design.
The images have very
specific symbolism and rules
that tattooers need to follow
to stay true to the art form.
Mike Rubendall
is a living legend.
Having Mike be a judge
on the panel is a chin-check
for these tattooers.
Thank you very much
for joining us, man.
Thank you. Thanks for having me.
That brings us to this week's
elimination tattoo--
Japanese.
Oh, [bleep] Japanese?
God damn it.
Every meaning on every
piece is going to be brought up.
It has to be perfect
or we're screwed.
Rooted in mythology
and natural symbols,
Japanese tattoos convey
a balance of power and beauty
through natural imagery.
In Japanese style there's
an even distribution of weight
throughout the piece.
If it's off, it can really make
somebody's body look awkward.
Let's meet your canvasses.
[music]
Today, we have
two Bellator fighters.
My name is Brett Weedman
and I'm a professional fighter.
I spent a bit of time in
Japan training in martial arts.
I wanted to have
something to represent
that part of my life.
My name is Lloyd.
A lot of fighters have tattoos.
I only have one on my back,
which is a cupcake.
This will be my
first Japanese tattoo.
I don't [bleep] believe this.
It's cupcake.
I don't know what [bleep]
he wants, don't really care.
That's the one I want to tattoo.
Jamie, because you won
the Flash Challenge,
you now have the power
to assign all human canvasses.
You can upset the balance
of power.
Be ruthless.
I consistently have gotten
the most difficult tattoo,
time to switch it up a little.
Thinking about a Koi
transforming into a dragon.
I want to get rid
of the middle class.
Sarah, Clint and Sebastian, even
though they are falling behind,
they still have the potential
to do a really good tattoo
and shine.
I would hope to widen
the gap between myself
and the middle people.
I'd like a deity
on my right thigh.
-Anything in particular?
-Yes.
-It's called a Daruma Doll.
-All right.
-I'm open on the right leg.
-No particular ideas?
Anything that spells fighting
or is bad-ass, I'm into.
-Okay.
-A dragon.
Jamie's gunning for me.
I came after his [bleep],
so he's gonna come after mine.
I know I'm [bleep].
Canvasses. One by one,
please reveal the name
on the bottom of your skull.
Tatu Baby.
Jamie.
Steve.
I get the muscle guy.
He wants a Koi Dragon,
which I am not a big fan of.
This could be a really
[bleep] up tattoo.
-Sarah.
-Sebastian.
Yes.
I actually got the canvass
that I wanted to have.
Thanks a lot, buddy.
-Jesse.
-Clint.
I [bleep] Clint over
by giving him a dragon again
after he got chewed up so bad
on the chaps.
My most brilliant move to date.
Fan-[bleep]-tastic.
Thanks, dude.
You have the rest
of the evening to consult
with your human canvass.
Tomorrow, you'll have
six hours to complete
your Japanese tattoo.
And based on your work,
one of you will be closing shop.
Good luck.
When it comes
to doing true Japanese,
everything is very deliberate.
From the background
to the way things line up
to the placement on the body,
they have to be perfect
in order to pull off
a rhythm and a balance.
I saw the Bellator straight up,
I'm like, "I know him!"
I'm ready for this challenge.
I should have the best
tattoo I've ever done now.
Um, while you're
looking through this,
why don't you tell me real quick
what you had in mind.
And I'm gonna let you know
what we can do.
Since we're gonna be
doing obviously a dragon,
we're working against
a lot of detail
with a limited
amount of time, so...
I have absolutely no experience
with Japanese tattoos at all.
If you want me
to cover a lot of area,
line gray would
be a good route to go.
I was hoping in color.
What I can get done
in six hours in black-and-gray,
is about the same
as 3.5 hours in color.
So you're basically
cutting it in half.
It can't get any worse
for me than this.
I'm looking for reddish and
yellows and golds, greenish.
This is an ass-beating
that could very well
be my ticket home.
I mean, I love the idea
of the lotus.
It just--if there's
other flowers.
Flora's more like an accent
-to a piece.
-Right. Right.
You always need
that subject matter.
Let's think of something cool
that we can incorporate.
-How about a Koi Fish?
-Mm...
-You don't like Koi Fish?
-Not really.
I would rather go floral.
Would you be into,
like, a Buddha?
I don't think--
you're not crazy
about the Buddha.
I'm just thinking
competition-wise, you know?
There's nothing in this
tattoo that I can put
that's gonna wow the judges.
I know that if I put totally
different flowers together,
it's probably gonna hurt me.
I don't want this tattoo
to look simple.
Now you're giving me
a tricky one.
We're gonna do
some extensive research.
Absolutely.
And we're gonna
get this [bleep] perfect.
D-a-r-u-m-a doll.
He has a weight in the bottom
of him, so if you were to
push him over,
he would bounce back up.
I just don't see the doll
as being a traditional tattoo.
I really don't want to get
my ass chewed out for that.
-You definitely want that?
-I had my mind set.
We're talking about my father
coming home from Japan
with one of these,
and I'm seven.
And he's teaching me these
life lessons with this doll.
-Right.
-So to say, like,
"well, this one's aesthetically
more Japanese for this challenge
-on this show--
-Not aesthetically.
He did not want
to change anything.
We have two judges that
specialize in Japanese tattoos.
I know that she's looking
to please the judges,
but first thing is pleasing me
and make sure that
I get the tattoo that I want.
I don't want to use
a Japanese element,
like, just because
it's an element,
but it doesn't have any personal
connection to my time in Japan.
I completely refuse to
be railroaded by a canvass.
I need to meet this challenge,
and I don't want
to [bleep] go home.
[rock music]
-This is your piece?
-Yeah.
What do you think?
You like it? No?
Wow, that's a lot.
Clint, are you doing yours
black-and-gray or in color?
I'm doing it in black-and-gray.
I just hope you
can do it in six hours.
[scoffs]
Looks like Clint's
bit off the most.
I feel like giving Clint the
dragon was really well played.
He's definitely struggling.
[sighs]
Today you must create
a Japanese tattoo.
Remember, we're
testing you on balance.
You have six hours to tattoo
and your time starts now.
-Yeah, man.
-Let's do it.
Balance is a major
element in Japanese tattooing.
It's really important to balance
the image to background.
Cool, cool, cool.
And the overall way
images move on the body.
-Sorry if my feet smell.
-Nah, you're good. You're good.
Yeah. I like that a great deal.
Even if it does cost me,
I'm going to do
the Daruma Doll for him.
I really want to just
kind of capture your story.
'Cause I mean, that's what the
original Japanese tattoos were,
they were a culmination
of a person's life events.
Right.
This Daruma Doll has so
much meaning to me personally.
I feel like I keep
getting knocked down,
the harshest critiques.
Every single time
I get knocked down,
I push myself back up.
It looks fantastic.
[needle buzzing]
Here we go.
Now you definitely
gotta be still.
Oh, my God.
I think my design
is the [bleep].
The entire tattoo as
a whole is balanced.
-But he's moving.
-[shrieks]
And I need to finish the lines.
I was moving? All right.
You see where your arm was
and where it is?
Well, man, you
wanna tie me down?
I don't know, we might have to.
I'm a little concerned
I might just [bleep] up
and not be able to [bleep]
finish the tattoo.
-[groans]
-[needle buzzing]
My balls are
on the band saw right now.
This type of tattoo
requires a lot of time.
It's so tight with detail.
-[grunts]
-I need to adjust.
I'm not trying to be a dick
or anything, it's just, like,
[bleep], can we at least
get the dragon done?
[sighs]
No.
I just happened to land a client
who's not allowing me to do
the best of my ability.
If I don't like it,
I'm walking out.
This guy could very well
send me the [bleep] home.
Start praying to Jesus.
[buzzing]
The fish should dye perfect.
To make this tattoo
really shine,
I'm throwing different elements
and having these elements
balance out with each other,
even though they're
not symmetrical.
I love the way that the color's
coming out in the layout.
And the layout.
I'm not 100% confident
with this,
I just hope it
doesn't send me home.
[grunts]
Three more hours.
[buzzing]
[grunts]
Do you know what
the Koi symbolizes?
I didn't know there was
gonna be a Goddamn test.
It symbolizes
quite a few things, um...
It symbolizes courage.
I did a reasonable
amount of homework.
Honestly, there was, like,
100 meanings for Koi Fish.
Oh, it's gonna be
a bloodbath out there.
Knowing that the judges
might get on my case
about the doll itself--
Look at that.
I decide to put other elements
in the background.
That are going to support
the Daruma.
What do you think about Sarah's?
The background is competing
against the image.
It's very tough
to decipher the two.
Yo, yo, yo. What's going on?
What's the haps?
Talk about being nervous
about American traditional,
now it's, like, "Oh, my God."
It's only me and Rubendahl,
don't worry.
Yeah, no pressure.
Because Sebastian
did the background so dark,
it looks like a turd
that you can't polish.
Well, you know if you say
something bad about this tattoo
I'm coming for you, right?
I don't give a [bleep].
Punch ain't gonna hurt.
I won't even see it coming.
I'll be done.
Oh, I know.
Two more hours.
-Hey.
-Oh, yeah.
I've never actually done
a real Japanese piece.
-This stuff's kind of fun.
-You think?
Yeah. It's liberating.
This particular challenge,
I've decided to put
my personality aside
to create this piece,
so I can show the judges
that I respect what they do.
How different is that drawing
than what he draws.
It's, like, "No."
If I start putting googly eyes
on this horse and buck teeth
on the Samurai chick,
I know for a fact
that Chris would
flip his [bleep].
Try to put some traditional
feel in there for you.
Even though Jesse's
a new school kid,
he's hung around this long
because his technique
and his application
are top notch.
Hang in there.
-What are you doing?
-Making a Koi dragon.
A Koi dragon literally looks
like the body of a Koi Fish
and the head of a dragon.
Kind of looks like a seahorse
a little bit.
He wanted more of a dragon
than a Koi. Right?
Right.
I'm kind of handcuffed
a little bit.
The judges are two
traditional tattoo artists,
most Koi Dragons are 90% fish
with a dragon head,
but my client didn't really
want to go old school.
I understand what they said
but you want a longer tail.
I gave you a longer tail.
You're the customer, man.
I like it, I really do.
[buzzing]
20 minutes left.
[grunts]
I decide that I'm gonna
basically almost double
the size of my tattoo
and try to throw some
lotus's on there really quick.
Not my brightest moment.
Time is [bleep] flying today.
You did it. You added the lotus.
Probably something else
I'm gonna get yelled at for.
Ten, nine, eight, seven,
six, five, four,
three, two, one.
That's it, time's up.
No more ink, machine's down.
Worth six hours of torture, huh?
I definitely am
questioning my sanity
for sticking these lotuses
on there at the last second.
Up close it's
really rough still.
It definitely needs more time.
Clint's piece might
just save my ass.
It looks like he
shot his dragon in the head
and beat it to death
for six hours.
There were a lot
of issues with it,
it's very, very dark.
The fire looks like a red blob.
I'm one pissed off guy.
[exhales]
This is by far
the worst canvas I've had.
That [bleep] completely
[bleep] me on my tattoo
and I'm [bleep] pissed.
[grunts]
Do not bring up your client,
'cause they
do not give a [bleep].
But you can't force your client
to get something else.
No, wrong. You're gonna
get your ass chewed out.
Hell no. [bleep] that.
I mean, this thing
is a [bleep] mess.
What the [bleep]
is anybody here for
if they can only do
on style of tattooing?
[music]
I don't think
I did an amazing tattoo,
'cause my client didn't let me
put anything else on it.
What I would say to you is,
do not bring up your client
'cause they do not
give a [bleep].
But you can't force your
client to get something else.
I understand that.
What I'm saying to you is
all the judges look at it,
that's an excuse,
they don't [bleep] care.
But my client
did not want nothing else.
But what I'm telling you
is the judges--
They're gonna
do it somewhere else.
But you cannot
tattoo anything extra
on your client because
your client's gonna be, like,
"Whoa, whoa, whoa, stop."
No. Wrong. You're gonna
get your ass chewed out.
Hell, no. [bleep] that.
I don't think Baby sees the
negative things in her tattoos.
If you can't admit to yourself,
"well, there are some things
that I need to work on,"
you will never
be able to improve.
[music]
This week, we asked you
to create a Japanese tattoo.
We were testing balance.
Jamie, you're up first.
Are you familiar
with doing Japanese style?
You know, maybe
an Americanized-Japanese,
but definitely I wouldn't
say traditional Japanese.
Let's start with
the positive sides.
I like the fins you did.
I like the texture.
And all the veins that you
put in the fins, you know,
to give it that nice look to it.
The flowers in this
thing are killing me.
I've gotten to know
your tattoo style.
I've gotten to see how clean
of an outline you can do.
-They were rushed.
-The outlines were jacked.
I honestly thought
I had plenty of time
and once I got into them it was
the fasted six hours of my life.
To be honest,
I think you could have
eliminated them completely
and spent more time
on the Koi and the waves.
If there was more
contrast in the fish,
I think it would
stand out a lot more.
This thing would
be well-balanced
with lighter water
and a dark fish.
So that this thing doesn't
look like one big gray tone.
That being said,
Jamie, this tattoo has some
very nice points to it.
Jesse.
Are you comfortable
in the Japanese style?
Not at all.
This is my first one.
This is definitely the most
non-Jesse tattoo you've done.
There's definitely a lot
of elements that you hit
really nicely.
The Jewel kind of look
in the top of the armor.
The little details inside.
The drapery, the clothes,
the fabric.
It really sets it apart
and gives it that life.
This is a really strict image,
and you held to it really well.
Your balance was there.
This was very refreshing
for me to see today.
The closest tattoo
to traditional Japanese
that I've seen all night.
Pulled it off and accomplished
the look that we're looking for.
-Well done.
-Thank you.
Sebastian.
You were pretty
excited about having
a Bellator fighter canvas.
Yeah, I was
pretty hyped about it.
-He was open to his design.
-Yeah.
He wanted strength and power.
The Japanese tiger
fits with him nicely.
You lost the dynamics
of a tiger.
This looks like someone
wearing a tiger suit.
It has the anatomy of a human.
The way his head is,
his shoulders, his hands.
His waist, his butt,
and his feet.
It's standing there
and makes it look like
this thing is--uh, yeah,
he's humping that rock.
Hey, I ain't got
nothing to do with that.
You don't have anything to do--
-you didn't draw this tiger?
-Yeah, I drew it.
Then you have
everything to do with it.
Doing so much black
in the background
really doesn't help
to accentuate the tiger.
From three feet back,
it's hard to tell what's what.
If you can't pull off
a clean, solid background,
why bother?
You didn't hit it out
of the park on this one,
that's for sure.
Steve.
I hope your client
loves this tattoo.
-He likes it.
-'Cause I don't.
Nothing balances out here.
The big water swoosh
through the middle
looks like a sheet
draped across there.
In between the tail
where there's just open skin
and water splashing
up the one side.
It doesn't connect.
You lost the effect.
The scales should
have been bigger.
They should expand with
the curves of the Koi.
To enhance the transformation
of Koi into the dragon.
The one fin.
Why not two at least?
Put the other one up behind him.
I tried it.
It didn't look right.
Bro, this don't look right.
It's probably the first
Dragon Koi I've done.
Not really my thing.
Well, what the [bleep]
is anybody here for
if they come to compete and only
do one style of tattooing?
No, don't even say that.
That's not how I feel.
Well, that's how I feel
because when you don't
feel like tattooing,
you just don't--you cruise.
That's not--
that's not how it is.
It's kind of like
in the beginning everybody was
giving Jesse a [bleep],
because Jesse was only doing
big-eyed, big-teeth things.
But now we're kind of seeing
that he does different styles.
You have to be able to adapt,
'cause if you don't,
then expect to get out
of this competition.
Sarah.
-You got the other fighter.
-Yeah.
-He wanted a Daruma Doll.
-What does that mean?
Basically he's a fighter.
He's always gonna
get knocked down.
You gotta pick yourself
right back up.
There are some
elements to this tattoo
that are just really beautiful.
I love the doll.
I love the detail.
The shading in it.
The lantern, super cool.
But this design
doesn't balance well.
The Daruma Doll is less
than half of this tattoo.
There's so much open space
up at the top.
Maybe the background
was a little bit crazy,
but I like it.
I did put a lot of myself
into this tattoo.
We weren't asking for yourself,
we were asking for Japanese.
No, I mean, like,
about putting my soul.
Putting, like,
me, me, me, me, me.
Listen, Sarah, you've
gotta shake off the last one.
To get to this one.
'Cause that last
psychosis was insane.
I love what I do.
And if you send me home
for doing a tattoo today
that I love to do, then fine.
I still love this tattoo.
Getting all crazy
with all this background,
you didn't need to do it.
You would have had just as
strong of an outing without it.
Tatu Baby.
The overall composition
of the lotus are a little stiff.
You made zero effort
to work with the contour
or the shape of the body.
It really doesn't move
with her curves.
I was gonna add a little
more to it but she was, like,
"No, I want it
to go from here to here."
-It's not flattering at all.
-You're riding on a high.
You've won twice.
You've done some great
black-and-gray shading.
You've done some nice color.
I feel like the black-and-gray
just kind of changed.
This has areas in it
where it's pretty choppy.
It's not smooth like your
other black and grays.
You have to treat
everything the same.
If you're execution looks
really good on one thing,
then make it look really good
on the other thing.
You have to be able
to adapt to all styles.
I don't hate the tattoo,
I just don't love it.
It's a little bit boring to me.
Clint.
-Oh, Jamie did me wonders.
-How so?
'Cause he knows I have issues
with my oriental dragons.
I was [bleep] from
the moment we started.
You're acting
like you're the victim.
Clearly the client's the victim.
It's just a bunch of dragon
anatomy thrown in a ball.
And there's no separation
between the head and the body.
The scales are a major failure.
You did them too tight.
If you had done everything
on a bigger scale,
it would have been
way more readable.
The original drawing's huge.
It's, like, this big.
I can't tattoo
as big as these guys.
This isn't a dick challenge
that size matters.
This is a tattoo.
Dude, seriously,
you're killing me here.
It's doing a clean job,
and that's it.
I mean, this thing
is a [bleep] mess!
It's like you shot it
in the head right off the bat
and then spent the next
six hours just beating it.
What's a bummer to me
is y'all didn't learn
the lesson from
the traditional day.
That was a precursor to this.
Y'all don't know
what traditional is.
Y'all came in here
and totally [bleep] it.
And then it's Japanese day.
Learn the [bleep] lessons, man.
And that's not
just to you, Clint.
That's to everybody in the room.
Nobody, nobody in this room
learned their lesson
from traditional day.
[music]
It seems to be pretty clear
at the beginning
of each challenge,
what is expected of you.
We're down to the wire.
Any one of you could
be the next one to go.
This is the most
level playing field
that it could be.
Next couple weeks, man,
this is it.
Who really wants to stay here?
Head back to the loft.
For one of you,
it'll be your last visit.
Because when you return, someone
will be packing their machines
and closing shop.
We'll call you back
when we've made our decision.
[dramatic music]
Big surprise.
They hated everybody's.
None of us got it right again.
None of us.
But if Jesse wins on that piece,
that's horse-[bleep].
Literally.
"You're the great Jesse again."
I'm, like, "Oh, my [bleep] God."
Hey, maybe he's
just as smart, yo.
He's just smart enough
to understand what we don't.
Well, I find it funny that
Jesse took the easiest approach.
And then they tell me that
I'm [bleep] not trying.
I took offense.
[bleep] you, man.
Think I'm mailing it in?
I'm not mailing nothing in.
[music]
Strangely enough, you and Clint
might be in the bottom two.
Clint's definitely going down.
They tore him a new ass.
They tore Clint to shreds.
That was my decision.
It wasn't an accident.
I knew perfectly well.
I've won three challenges,
plus a Flash Challenge.
But I believe
I'm definitely going down.
I do take offense that he
thinks I'm [bleep] not trying.
When you don't feel like
tattooing, you just don't--
-You cruise.
-That's not how it is.
If you don't like my tattoo,
then you don't like it.
But to tell me
that I don't care,
then, you know,
[bleep] you, man.
You think I'm going in
to tattoo real people
and not giving
a [bleep], saying,
"Well, I don't have to do good
'cause I already
won three times."
That's [bleep] insulting.
I'm right there
with you on that one.
We come here, we get critiqued
and want to know
how good we are.
But don't question
my integrity ever.
Yeah. No, that's
crossing the line.
You're questioning,
you know, my manhood.
Don't [bleep] do that,
it's not smart.
Don't ever [bleep]
question my integrity.
And don't [bleep]
talk down to me.
If we were in a bar,
you wouldn't [bleep]
-Question my integrity.
-That [bleep] pissed me off.
Get close enough
and tell me that.
-Exactly how I feel.
-It's bull [bleep].
All right, guys.
Starting off with
Jessie's tattoo,
which could be
the tattoo of the day.
This is definitely one
of my favorite tattoos.
I like that he went true
to Japanese tattooing
and really did his homework.
Seeing him do it
extremely clean,
that says a lot about him.
He's the one person
on traditional day that learned.
Jamie's Koi.
Overall it was
one of my favorites,
because it's drawn accurately.
I don't think that it
looks balanced on the leg.
I think it looks off-balance
from the way it's sitting.
Who would be on the bottom here?
I know I've been giving Clint
a lot of [bleep],
but I think
he's a great tattooer.
He can outline better
than almost anybody in the room,
but this tattoo,
there's no redeeming qualities.
You can't tell what it is
from five feet away.
The scales don't work.
The anatomy of the dragon really
competes with the background.
And I hate to bash that because
somebody's wearing that tattoo.
Oliver, you were
pretty rough on Steve here
-with the Koi dragon.
-This one hurts me.
That one big claw, it's hideous.
-Why not two at least?
-This is balance.
So at least put
the other one up.
It's the worst tattoo he's done.
-He just took a nosedive, man.
-Bottom of the day?
Tatu Baby.
It was the ugliest
Japanese tattoo.
This layout is rough.
It just doesn't
follow tradition.
It's a shame for the client.
They came in thinking
they're gonna leave
with a masterpiece.
All right, guys,
I think we have a decision.
-Yeah.
-Oliver, you wanna go get them?
[door closes]
It's getting rough, guys.
It's getting rough.
I need to see Jesse,
Baby, Clint, and Steve.
See you all down there.
[music]
[dramatic music]
One of you impressed us
with your balance,
and the rest of you
didn't even come close.
The good news.
The judges have decided
that the best tattoo of the day
-goes to Jesse.
-Thank you.
I was impressed
how you did your research
and your homework,
and it showed.
Your design was very readable,
it was clean.
Truest to the traditional
Japanese tattoo.
-Well done.
-Thank you.
Clint, Tatu Baby and Steve.
None of you impressed us today.
Tatu Baby.
I tried my best to persuade
my client into getting all these
Japanese-themed tattoos,
and she just wanted
the simplest one.
It was just
a simple, simple tattoo
with simple,
straight-forward elements.
I tried my best trying
to add more to the piece.
Make the most out of something
that's very simple.
Really sit down
and draw for this style
to try to keep yourself
in a great position.
Just a boring
snoozer out of you.
Steve.
You have tremendous potential
and you kind of slept
on this one tonight.
The case being thrown
out there that I'm coasting,
or I'm not trying--
you didn't show us
that you really wanted it.
I mean, I want this.
That's why I'm here.
I made a mistake,
I'm really trying to step
out of the box,
get my client what he asked for,
instead of just staying truer
to the traditional style.
Do you feel that your piece
is the worst tonight?
I'm not saying
I did a great tattoo today,
but I've won three challenges.
I feel I've shown that I'm
a really good tattoo artist.
Clint.
I came in today
and I just dropped the ball.
I [bleep] up a lot.
All you had to do today
was just do a decent dragon
that we could tell what
the [bleep] was going on.
-You botched a lot of elements.
-I'm really good at what I do.
But this is just
a tiny little section.
The tattoo you did today
is not a good representation
of what you're capable of.
This is a big kick in the ass.
I'm trying to stay
real humble right now.
I take everybody's
advice to heart.
I'm willing to learn.
You made it this far in the game
and I really would expect more
from here on out.
This is crunch time.
The heat is on.
It's gotten to that point.
The judges have decided...
[music]
Clint.
You do not have what it takes
to be Ink Master.
We're a little bummed
that we're sending home
a really technical tattooer.
But somebody's gotta go home,
it's just come down to it.
You've shown us a lot
of things in this competition.
You've [bleep] up
and you've came back
and redeemed yourself.
But your tattoo
was the worst one today
and there's no more room
for comebacks.
Please pack your machines
and close shop.
Get the [bleep] out of here.
I busted my ass
on that [bleep] tattoo.
I do bad-ass [bleep] tattoos.
I don't need a [bleep] title
to make myself feel better.
I'm too [bleep] good
to be eliminated right now.
They're gonna regret
that [bleep] decision.
I mean, seriously.
That--that's just [bleep] up.
[narrator]  On the next
episode of Ink Master...
For today's flash
challenge, you must customize
one of my guitars.
I'm freaking out a little bit.
I wouldn't want
to take any of these onstage.
It's gotta get better.
They can go find
somebody else to come
[bleep] do this [bleep],
I'm about done with it.
-Think you're gonna throw up?
-[gagging]
If she doesn't let me
finish this tattoo,
I'm going home.
The kick in the ass
did not hurt anybody.
Great [bleep] job.
-You need some tattoos.
-Oh, I'm working on it.
The excuses are B-O-L-O-G-N-A.
[bleep].
[music]